---
layout: post
categories: the economists
title: 数字无产者
---

### 0330 数字无产者

You have multiple jobs, whether you know it or not. Most begin first thing in the morning, when you pick up your phone and begin generating the data that make up Silicon Valley's most important resource. That, at least, is how we ought to think about the role of data-creation in the economy, according to a fascinating new economic paper.

We are all digital labourers, helping make possible the fortunes generated by firms like Google and Facebook, the authors argue. If the economy is to function properly in the future - and if a **crisis of technological unemployment** is to be avoided - we must take account of this and change the relationship between big internet companies and their users. Artificial intelligence (AI) is getting better all the time, and *stands poised to* transform *a host of* industries, say the authors. But, in order to learn to drive a car or recognise a face, the algorithms that make clever machines *tick* must usually be trained on *massive amounts of data*.

Internet firms gather these data from users every time they click on a google search result, say, or issue a command to Alexa. They also *hoover up* valuable data from users *through the use of* tools like reCAPTCHA, which ask visitors to solve problems that are easy for humans but hard for AIs, such as *deciphering text from books* that machines are unable to parse.

That does not just *screen out* *malicious* bots, but also helps *digitise* books. People "pay" for useful free services by providing firms with the data they *crave*.

These data become part of the firms' capital, and, as such, a *fearsome* source of competitive advantage. *Would-be* startups that might challenge internet's giants cannot train their AIs without access to the data only those giants possess. Their best hope is often to be acquired by those very same titans, adding to the problem of uncompetitive markets. That, for now, AI's contributions to productivity growth is small, is partly because of the free-data model, which *limits the quality* of data gathered.

Firms trying to develop useful applications for AI must hope that the data they have are sufficient, or come up with ways to *coax users into* providing them with better information at no cost. For example, they must *pester random people - like those blur-deciphering visitors to websites - into* labelling data, and hope that in their *annoyance* and *haste匆忙* they do not make mistakes.

Even so, as AI improves, the amount of work made vulnerable to displacement by technology grows, and ever more of the value generated in the economy *accrues* to profitable firms rather than workers.

As the authors point out, the share of GDP paid out to workers in wages and salaries, once thought to be relatively stable, has already been declining over the past few decades.

### 用户数据的买卖

To tackle these problems, they have a *radical proposal*. Rather than being regarded as capital, data should be treated as labour. And *more specifically*, regarded as the property of those who generate such information, unless they agree to provide it to firms *in exchange for* payment. In such a world, user data might be sold multiple times, to multiple firms, *reducing the extent to which* data sets *serve as* barriers to entry.

Payments to users for their data will help spread the wealth generated by AI. Firms could also potentially generate better data by paying. Rather than guess what a person is up to as they _wander around_ a shopping center, for example, firms could ask individuals to share information on which shops were visited and which items were reviewed, in exchange for payment.

Perhaps most ambitiously, the authors *muse* that data labour could come to be seen as useful work, *conferring* the same sort of dignity as paid employment: a desirable side-effect in a possible future of massive automation.

The authors' ideas need *fleshing out*; their paper, thought-provoking though it is, runs to only five pages. Parts of the envisioned scheme seem impractical.

Would people really be interested in taking the time to describe their morning routine of office habits without a *substantial* *monetary* inducement (and would their data be valuable enough for firms to pay a substantial amount)?

Might not such systems attract data mercenaries, spamming firms with useless junk data simply to make a quick buck?

Still, the paper contains essential insights which should frame discussion of data's role in the economy. One concerns the imbalance of power in the market for data.

That _stems_ partly _from_ *concentration among* big internet firms. But it is also because, though data may be extremely valuable *in aggregate*, an individual's personal data typically are not.

For one Facebook user to threaten to deprive Facebook of his data is no threat at all. So effective negotiation with internet firms might require collective action: and the formation, perhaps, of a "data-labour union".

This might have drawbacks. A union might demand too much *in compensation for* data, for example, *impairing* the development of useful AIs.

It might make all user data freely available by demanding a share of firms' profits; that would rule out the pay-for-data labour model the author see as vital to improving data quality.

Still, a data union holds potential as a way of *solidifying* worker power at a time when conventional unions struggle to remain relevant. Most important, the authors' proposal *puts front and center* the *collective nature* of value in a AI world.

Each person becomes something like an oil well, pumping out the fuel that makes the digital economy run. Both fairness and efficiency demand that the distribution of income generated by that fuel should be shared more evenly, according to our contributions.

The *tricky=difficult* part is working out how.


#### English

* stem from = is because of 原因是
* pester(烦扰) / coax(劝诱) sb. into doing 两词有区别，但在某些情况下可以互换
* solidify 使坚固
* to the extent that ... / reduce the extent
* confer 赋予 = award
* make a quick buck 赚快钱
* substantial 大量的
* monetary = financial
* in compensation for = in return for
* in aggregate = as a whole
* impair = detriment = harm v.
* collective 共同，集体（作为共同体起作用）
* concentration among... 。。。的集中
* <主语> ..., adj. though it is, ... 虽然<形容词>
* flesh out (idea) 给...增加细节/论据
* concern = be about
* muse = ponder = speculate
* rather than do sth., ... could do sth.
* ..., more specifially, ... 具体来说（展开
* be regarded as = be treated as 当作
* displaced by = replaced by
* valnerable to sth. = prone to sth.
* accrue = accumulate
* crave = want very badly
* digitise (拼写)
* screen out 把。。（不好的）挡在外面
* fearsome 令人害怕（敬畏）的
* a source of advantage 导致优势的原因
* giant = titan 行业巨头
* adding to/aggravate the problem of 加重了...问题
> make possible the fortunes made by ...
> make total nonsense Mr. Trump's claims that ...

* generate fortunes
* stands poised to, poised = ready
* a host of = a large number of
* make ... tick = make ... work/behave the way they do 使...正常工作
> the algorithms that make clever machines *tick*

* massive amounts of
* ..., say, ... = ..., for example, ...
* hoover up （非正式）= collect
* 同义词转换：decipher = parse
> *deciphering text from books* that machines are unable to parse

* through the use of = by using = by means of using
